&mdash;
title: I completed my PhD!
&mdash;

Last month, I completed my PhD in psychology at the *University of Western Australia*, with the help of my supervisors: Mark Hurlstone, Fabio Boschetti, Simon Farrel, Cecile Paris, and Iain Walker. You can access the entire thesis [here](https://research-repository.uwa.edu.au/en/publications/mental-models-under-ideological-constraints-the-psychological-sig). The abstract for the thesis is below:

> There is a pressing need to bolster public support for effective climate change mitigation policies. Much of climate and policy science communication can be classified as 'one-size-fits-all,' where the same strategies are used for all individuals. Yet, mounting evidence suggests the general public is not homogeneous in their receptivity to climate and policy science information. Instead, the public can be divided into homogeneous segments, each possessing a unique interpretation of climate change underpinned by their psychological characteristics. Messages can be tailored to the informational needs of each segment, in a manner that addresses misconceptions, leverages motivations, and accounts for cognitive characteristics and ideologies.

> Contemporary approaches to audience segmentation typically use a top-down approach, whereby concepts salient in scientific literature determine the number and nature of segments. Instead, the current thesis develops and implements a bottom-up approach to segmentation, whereby views are gauged using concepts of climate change prominent in public discourse. In Chapter 1, I outline the two aims of this thesis. The first aim is a *descriptive* aim to identify audience segments of Australians using a bottom-up approach. The second aim is an *explanatory* aim to identify the psychological characteristics that underpin each segment. One characteristic&mdash;the mental model&mdash;receives unique emphasis, as mental models provide insight into how lay people's understandings and misunderstandings combine to inform risk perceptions and decision making. Yet, mental models are understudied within the audience segmentation domain. In Chapter 2, I review the mental model literature. I find that researchers have applied a problematically narrow definition of mental models when investigating mental models of climate change.

> This thesis includes two empirical chapters investigating Australian samples. In Chapter 3, I use social media data to identify prominent climate change topics within Australian public discourse (*N* = 201,506 tweets). This is achieved using a novel mixed-methods framework that blends data science with qualitative techniques. I find evidence for five prominent topics of climate change discussion, some of which have been omitted in top-down approaches. In Chapter 4, I report two audience segmentation studies. Both studies identify audience segments using a bottom-up approach (the Q methodology), whereby participants indicate their views on the climate change concepts derived from the text analysis reported in Chapter 3. In the first study, I integrate my bottom-up approach to segmentation with a top-down consideration of theory by identifying the psychological characteristics that are diagnostic of each segment (*N* = 435)}. The bottom-up approach indicates three segments exist along a spectrum of climate change scepticism: Acceptors, Fencesitters, and Sceptics. The top-down inspection of the psychological characteristics of segments suggests Acceptors, Fencesitters, and Sceptics also sit upon a dimension of political ideology (from left-wing ideology to right-wing ideology), worry about climate change (decreasing in amount of worry), and environmental worldviews (increasing in worldview that the environment is able to easily recover from the effects of human activity). Sceptics display uniquely high self-perceived (but not actual) levels of climate change knowledge whereas Fencesitters display the greatest levels of dispositional conspiratorial ideation and Acceptors display the lowest levels of dispositional conspiratorial ideation. Moreover, each segment has unique mental models of climate change. In the second study, I replicate the audience segmentation solution of the first study (*N* = 413)}. Additionally, I demonstrate each segment varies in their tendencies to update their beliefs when contradicted by scientific information. These tendencies can be understood by recourse to the psychological characteristics of each segment.

> Overall, my results suggest that scientific communication tailored for different segments may be more effective than a 'one-size-fits-all' approach. In Chapter 5, I synthesise the findings of this thesis. To communicators, this thesis provides strategies to tailor communication to each segment. To scientists, this thesis provides methodological innovations and theoretical developments. In particular, I challenge the assumptions of the mental models of climate change literature by identifying converging evidence that climate change views are underpinned by two different categories of mental models: (1) mental models of effective mitigation and (2) mental models of cause and consequence. I conclude the final chapter by motivating future directions for research from the limitations of this thesis.
